# The Library under Test

In order to test a software component with automation, you must know at a bare minimum the component's interfaces. The code in [Figure 3](Figure 3.md) shows the structure of my CribbageLib class library. Let me emphasize that I am deliberately not adhering to standard .NET coding guidelines so I can keep the size of my library under test small.

The CribbageLib library contains a Card class to represent a single card. I use int fields rank, suit, and value to represent the rank (such as ace, deuce, three), the suit (club, diamond, heart, spade), and value in cribbage (aces are worth 1 point, deuces 2, face cards are 10 points). The Card constructor accepts a string (such as "Ac" for the ace of clubs), parses the two input characters, and stores values for the three corresponding member fields. For convenience when writing a ToString() method, I also store a string field named image, which is just the input argument. The Hand class is essentially an array of five Card objects, representing the four cards a player holds plus the one common card shared by both players. The Hand constructor accepts five Card objects.

The heart of my CribbageLib class library under test consists of the Hand.ValueOf15s and Hand.ValueOfPairs properties. These properties return the point value for the number of 15s in a cribbage hand and the point value for the number of pairs in a hand. Although the purpose of my CribbageLib library is merely to provide a sample to test, the ValueOf15s and the ValueOfPairs properties are quite interesting little problems in their own right. I've actually seen these used as hiring interview questions. However, as far as this column is concerned, if you want to use Excel for lightweight test storage, you don't need to know the implementation details of the properties. You can treat these properties as black boxes that have expected results for a particular input.
