# Wrapping Up

As I mentioned, lightweight test automation is a complement to, not a replacement for, other test automation approaches. If you do find yourself in a scenario where lightweight automation is appropriate, Excel makes an excellent test data storage choice. The two major alternatives for such storage are plain text files and XML documents. Text files are particularly simple but compared to Excel storage, they have the significant disadvantage that spurious control characters and whitespace characters are difficult to detect. Meanwhile, XML documents can be overkill for lightweight test automation storage. XML's hierarchical structure makes reading and writing the data somewhat more difficult than reading and writing data stored in Excel.

Additionally, Excel has some neat advantages that are useful in this sort of scenario. First, if you use Excel to store test case data, you can employ a strategy of "open test case data entry." By this, I mean you can place the Excel file in a public area and allow everyone on your team to add test cases. A few years ago I was writing a poker library. I found an old clunker machine, set up an Excel test case data spreadsheet on it, placed a deck of cards next to the machine, and encouraged everyone to enter test cases. It was very successful and the process uncovered some critical bugs. Since most people are comfortable with Excel, you'll probably get more participation in this sort of open project than if you use some other data storage. The second notable thing about Excel is that if you save your results to a worksheet, you've got a built-in way to do some lightweight test result analysis using the many math functions.

The new Microsoft Office 2007 system will enhance your ability to use Excel for test data storage. The new Office XML Formats for Excel, Word, and PowerPoint® stand to bring several programmatic interoperability improvements to software development and testing. Because the new Excel .xlsx file format is based on XML, it will provide improved file management capabilities and an improved ability to recover damaged files. And because the Office XML Formats use ZIP compression technology, test data files will be significantly smaller.

For more information on the new Microsoft Office 2007 file formats, see Ted Pattison's Basic Instincts column in this issue of MSDN®Magazine and also check out.
